It's irrelevant.
It really is irrelevant to it.
I love your snow button.
It's half the fun.
Listen to your stories.
I got a lot.
I mean, you know, because you get around, you know, and everything.
That's going to be a terrific story.
Texas decided, and they did it within 15 years, that we're going to be major.
We're going to be big.
And if you have to break a few weights to make an armlet, you know, well, they did buy everything in sight.
They got 41 copies of Ulysses.
I mean, did they need 41 copies?
They didn't even know they had 41, but they were fine.
You did mention, I had nothing, this is from, it's so funny, it's cute, you know.
uh henry huntington by the way started late in life yes much later in life than you did by the way he may have even been 60 or so which is why he was so obsessed with getting it all together he did that huntington library for seven years nobody even blows my mind nobody even heard of him until he came to new york in 1912 and only then when he when he bought
Everything he wanted.
Basically, what our attitude is, whatever it is, don't worry about it.
It's not too much.
He paid $50,000 for the Gutenberg Bible, and I took about the most money ever spent.
It's lasted for years and years and years, and if he had to pay more, he would have had to pay more.
That's right, he would have done it.
And that was on vellum, by the way.
What's that worth?
$15, $20 million?
I don't even know if you can put a price on it.
It's like with Vermeer.
I mean, it's almost so great.
Yes.
With Vermeer, you can't put a price on it.
No.
That painting, that painting is probably, should be the most expensive painting in the world.
Because he only did, not only did he only do 36 pictures, whatever it was, he is also recognized as the greatest painter of that genre.
That's right.
you have a film noir collection yes now what is that these are these are these are these are the great uh these no these are the actual man these are the actual um scripts uh can you name yourself sure sure casablanca i have the original uh i have the director's script uh with all the changes all the changes uh they were writing that movie as they were going along i don't know if you're aware of that uh and uh the entire ending
It was just a classic ending.
He and Claude, when Bogart and Claude Rains go off into the sunset, so to speak, at the airport, all that dialogue was changed.
And I have most of the 1940s and 50s couloir scripts like that.
Mine sometimes goes blank.
I've got to think of titles.
my god that's all right because we can get some of this later all right can we because we're going to talk i'll give you we'll talk home show because there's a lot we're just we're just really getting to know each other okay this is dancing i'm amazed that you ask all these questions i have a script before you which is wonderful i'm on track by the way i know i'm going
By the way, tell me when you have to wrap up.
I'm okay.
Not a problem.
I'm good for 2.15.
What's gotten away that you really wanted?
What continues to rank on you?
Yeah, it's a couple of things.
I'm just going to think about where you want to hold the tape for a second.
Believe it or not, that last Gutenberg, I was... Unfortunately, I was out of the country at the time.
Oh, you mean the one that went to the Japanese?
The one that went to the Japanese.
And I don't know when the next one's going to come up.
That wasn't a complete one.
No, it wasn't.
And that's one of the reasons why I danced around, going out of town, out of the country, and the heck with it.
When I came back, I fell back.
But what are you perceiving?
Again, this quote that you've given stuff to Delaware that has made the collection.
And you mentioned that you've got a couple of rooms.
The gallery of Chicago.
This must be a source of really great satisfaction.
Oh, absolutely.
Not only have you collected, but you've kind of made a gift.
Yes.
How about the books?
What's the future of it?
I'm sort of wrestling with that.
i believe that uh books should be circulated because i'm always very happy that i've had the opportunity to collect some very wonderful books because they weren't given to an institution see i think i think books are much rarer and much less available some of the great books are much less available than than paintings or furniture because you can always get you can't get one painting by a particular one you get another one
If you can't get one example of a piece of furniture, you get another one.
In certain categories, it's much tougher to get great examples of particular books.
That's interesting.
And because of that, I believe that books should keep recirculating wherever possible.
The reason is interesting.
A book is not something that is on display like a painting or an art object or a decorative art object or whatever.
A book is usually, you know, these kinds of books that we're talking about are in reference libraries, private libraries, university libraries, and only through very special permission can one get in to see them.
When one gets in to see them, they're really going to see, most times, they're going to see the book for its content, not because it's the first edition.
They're not looking at the book, except for the few
interested parties and i really mean few and especially manuscript and especially manuscript material which is unique yes exactly they're looking at it for the content therefore it's never on display for public use and since it isn't it might as well be in circulation in private and private libraries as well as public libraries as long as
There are reproductions or other printings or reproductions of the manuscripts so that scholars can have access to the actual written material.
Otherwise, the actual books should be enjoyed.
They are not enjoyed by anybody in these institutions.
That's a fact.
The only one that enjoys them is the librarian.
To go back to Bill Shady's quote, oh, Roger will let you handle it.
I said, number one, he wouldn't.
And I said, number two, it's not his.
Exactly.
He wouldn't let him.
Are you kidding me?
If I asked him if I could take out that Gutenberg and Daniel, he would have a hemorrhage.
Why wouldn't he?
He would just let him.
He'd call a guard and have me arrested.
So I think what you're trying to tell me is that maybe you feel an obligation to the next generation of collectibles?
I feel an obligation to the next generation of collectibles.
As Robert Ho said, by the way, he's got two Gutenberg guys.
Yes.
I have all of his catalogs, by the way.
And I feel I can say that because we do give mostly everything else away.
And therefore, I'm not really saying it because I'm really trying to say I'd love to make some money on what I put together because I've made a lot to do it.
That isn't really the reason.
And that's not a bad thing to do, incidentally.
People should make money on what they... What are you wrong with that?
But I do believe that cooks should go back into the hands of people who are going to
love them and enjoy them and visit with them well robert always asked and it's in the first it's in the practice of the first catalog of the sale i said you know this is the greatest library ever put together certainly in north america one of the great libraries in the world why don't you send it to an institution and he said where would i be if it weren't for the collectors for other collectors
He said, where would I have gotten my books that hadn't have been for other collections?
And Bradley Martin said the same thing?
Essentially the same thing.
Yes.
You know, well, come on.
His Audubon, the wonderful, was not unique.
He should have given his own a follow-up.
Yes.
See, that's different.
When you put something so comprehensive together, you've got to give it.
And where it cannot be replicated.
Yes.
That's, I totally agree.
Now, therefore, you see, as wonderful as your collection is, it's extraordinary.
There are other perispolios.
That's right.
Mine's a personal library, my own advertisement.
It'd be fun to separate it and let other guys grab a little piece of it here, a little piece of it there.
Now, I haven't asked money figures, and I'm not, but would you say that you've put more money into your other collecting areas than you have into your books?
Well, only because I started 20 years earlier.
I put a lot of money into my other stuff, but I put a good few million into the books already.
I put millions into the books.
I put a good few... I put some millions into the books.
It's evident what people put into it.
But the rest of the collection is... The other question.
I gather also that you're a self-made guy.
$60.
I mean, because we started $60 paying for books on time.
Not books, but... I started my business with $60.
Did you know that this collector was waiting to be released?
I had no idea.
With the acquisition of his wealth.
I'm dancing around.
No, no, that's wonderful.
Let me answer it.
Let me answer it two ways.
Number one, I read this somewhere.
that most of the great collectors didn't become great collectors until they started to make some money so that they had some extraneous income.
Then all of a sudden... I thought you didn't call it disposable income.
No, I hate that.
No, it's... No such thing is disposable.
Isn't that the truth?
Disposable income means that this money I don't really need, and so what I'm doing with it is unnecessary.
disposable.
That's a terrible thing.
That's a contemptible word.
I never thought of it in those terms, but you happen to be right.
Very interesting.
Well, it's true.
You're right.
Because you didn't say it.
You didn't call it disposable.
No, no, no.
Extraneous.
No, I'm saying it.
You're right.
Absolutely.
And, well, you have, and if I sought out a word like extraneous, it's interesting you say it, then for sure I wasn't trying to get into the disposable
trapped you know what i mean i also believe that you're it's obvious that you you've worked hard for what you have a man who is a person who has made himself nothing is disposable right i have a saying that some some people are lucky their father was born before them i'm not i'm not look go ahead continue but you've got a theory that i cut you off in explaining this thing yes you're answering me in two ways yes very good very good um
What was the question?
What makes collectors?
Okay.
I think what we were saying is that you started with 60 hours.
You've been a very successful man.
This collector has been released.
I never knew he was there.
And I think there's a lot of collectors out there.
Fine collectors who've never realized what was lurking beneath the surface of their being.
And obviously...
It's a means of expression.
You see, I'm not a creative person.
Well, I shouldn't say that.
I'm creative in many ways, business-wise.
I'm creative in all the ways, except I'm not creative when it comes to art or writing.
And I've never tried.
I've never really attempted to draw, paint, or write.
And I've always said there's something I really can't do, and therefore I've never tried.
But what has supplanted that for me, what has given me my creativity, in quotes, so to speak, is the ability to recognize wonderful things and acquire them.
To have the means to acquire them.
Yeah.
I guess what I'm saying is by...
Acquiring something wonderful, and by having the pleasure that my wife and I have of donating something wonderful, that's my way of creating.
Participating in the creative process.
Yes, exactly.
Making it accessible.
And being able to build a comprehensive collection, as we have, in many, many areas,
which scholars and curators and dealers and other interested parties can come to to learn from, that's a creation.
That's taking the great works and putting them in such a way and presenting them in such a way that other people can glean more information than from the individual work by itself, you see.
And putting the package together is a creation.
That's nice.
We're going to wrap it up on that.
I'm fine.
Because you got a 215.
No problem.
If you're okay, I'm okay.
Oh, I'm fine.
Because we're going to talk again.
We're going to talk again.
I still want to do it.
I will be a maniac.
Well, yeah.
Yes, in the sense that I continue.
Anybody that makes every... Let me just put one step.
All right?
And it's in this article that I found at Harvard.
And the guy has a wonderful two senses.
He says, the bibliophile loves books.
The bibliomaniac is a slave.
That's a wonderful sense.
I think I'm really a bibliophile, maybe.
My bibliomania, I have a deep appreciation for books.
I haunt bookshops.
I make every book fair, from the smallest around the country to the largest around the world.
And when I'm in London, during the book fair season, when they have about 20 different fairs going at the same time, I make every little cockamamie fair.
I think the Leo Maniac, by the way, is a...
I don't use that word.
I'm not like Thomas Phillips.
I don't want to quiet everything.
I don't want to use that negatively.
I think many of us are.
I think that I am a bibliomania.
I am a bibliomania.
Yeah, because, I mean...
You gave a quote to me a couple months back when we first started talking.
And you said, people who know me know I'm going to get them.
And we were talking about the auction.
What was going through your mind when Marion said, think about it.
And Marion thought that maybe he'd give you time to think about it because you're coming this far.
And he told me.
Are we on?
Yeah, we're on.
You don't want this on?
Just so you'll remind me to tell you about the manuscript for Tegenev's Fathers and Sons.
Oh, jeez.
You got that?
Do you remember when it was sold?
You may have seen the catalog, but it was never sold in auction, but it was catalogued.
Right.
It's a great story about how we got the Russians to buy it.
You're involved in this story?
Yes.
I'm watching myself with partners.
I found it.
I'm going to have this story.
You have it this time?
Yes.
Which way are you going?
I'm going back to Samarich and I can turn it around.
Oh, I don't know.
Forgive me.
Samarich?
That way.
I'm all set.